---

copyright:
  years: 2015, 2017
lastupdated: "2017-09-14"

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:pre: .pre}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}

# Managing custom words
{: #manageWords}

Along with the `POST /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words` and `PUT /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words/{word_name}` methods, which are used to add or modify words for a custom model (see [Adding words to a custom model](/docs/services/speech-to-text/custom.html#addWords)), the customization interface provides methods for listing the words of a custom language model and for deleting a word from a custom model.

## Listing words from a custom language model
{: #listWords}

The customization interface offers two methods for listing words from a custom language model:

-   The `GET /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words` method lists information about the words from the custom model's words resource. The method includes two optional query parameters:
    -   The `word_type` parameter lets you specify which words are to be listed: `all` (the default) shows all words, `user` shows only custom words that were added or modified by the user, and `corpora` shows only OOV words that were extracted from corpora.
    -   The `sort` parameter lets you indicate how the words are to be ordered. The parameter accepts one of two arguments, `alphabetical` or `count`, to indicate how the words are to be sorted. You can prepend an optional `+` or `-` to an argument to indicate whether the results are to be sorted in ascending or descending order. By default, the method displays the words in ascending alphabetical order.
-   The `GET /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words/{word_name}` methods lists information about a single specified word from the model's words resource.

In addition to a `word` field that identifies the word, both methods return the following information about a word:

-   A `sounds_like` field that presents an array of pronunciations for the word. The array can include the sounds-like pronunciation automatically generated by the service if no sounds-like value is provided for the word. For more information, see [Using the sounds_like field](/docs/services/speech-to-text/custom-resource.html#soundsLike).
-   A `display_as` field that shows the spelling of the custom word that the service displays in a transcription. The field contains an empty string if no display-as value is provided for the word, in which case the word is displayed as it is spelled. For more information, see [Using the display_as field](/docs/services/speech-to-text/custom-resource.html#displayAs).
-   A `count` field that indicates the number of times the word is found across all corpora. For example, if the word occurs five times in one corpus and seven times in another, its count is `12`. If you add a custom word to a model before it is added by any corpora, the count begins at `1`; if the word is added from a corpus first and later modified, the count reflects only the number of times it is found in corpora.

    > **Note:** For custom models created prior to the introduction of the `count` field, the field always remains at `0`. To update the field for such models, add the model's corpora again and include the `allow_overwrite` parameter with the `POST /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/corpora/{corpus_name}` method.
-   A `source` field that indicates how the word was added to the custom model's words resource. For OOV words, the field includes the name of each corpus from which the service extracted the word. If you modified or added the word directly, the field includes the string `user`.

If the service discovered one or more problems with a custom word's definition, the output includes an `error` field that provides an array that lists each problem element from the definition and a message that describes the problem. An error can occur, for example, if you add a custom word with an invalid `sounds_like` field, one that violates one of the rules for adding a pronunciation. You cannot train a model whose words resource includes a word with an error; you must correct or delete the word before you can train the model.

### Example request and response
{: listExample}

The following example lists all of the words, regardless of type, from the custom model with the specified ID. The words are displayed in the default sort order, ascending alphabetical.

```bash
curl -X GET -u {username}:{password}
"https://stream.watsonplatform.net/speech-to-text/api/v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words"
```
{: pre}

The words resource for the model contains four words. The first word was added directly by the user, but its `sounds_like` field contains an error: the field cannot contain numbers. The next two words were added from the listed corpora; the final word was added directly by the user.

```javascript
{
  "words": [
    {
      "word": "75.00",
      "sounds_like": ["75 dollars"],
      "display_as": "75.00",
      "count": 1,
      "source": ["user"],
      "error": [{"75 dollars": "Numbers are not allowed in sounds_like. You can try for example 'seventy five dollars'."}]
    },
    {
      "word": "HHonors",
      "sounds_like": ["hilton honors","h honors"],
      "display_as": "HHonors",
      "count": 1,
      "source": ["corpus1"]
    },
    {
      "word": "IEEE",
      "sounds_like": ["i triple e"],
      "display_as": "IEEE",
      "count": 3,
      "source": ["corpus1","corpus2"]
    },
    {
      "word": "tomato",
      "sounds_like": ["tomatoh","tomayto"],
      "display_as": "tomato",
      "count": 1,
      "source": ["user"]
    }
  ]
}
```
{: codeblock}

The following example shows information about the word `NCAA` from the words resource of the specified model:

```bash
curl -X GET -u {username}:{password}
"https://stream.watsonplatform.net/speech-to-text/api/v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words/NCAA"
```
{: pre}

The service added the word from `corpus3`, and the word was also modified by the user:

```javascript
{
  "word": "NCAA",
  "sounds_like": ["N. C. A. A.","N. C. double A."],
  "display_as": "NCAA",
  "count": 1,
  "source": ["corpus3","user"]
}
```
{: codeblock}

## Deleting a word from a custom language model
{: #deleteWord}

Use the `DELETE /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words/{word_name}` method to delete a word from a custom language model. Use the method to remove words that were added in error, for example, from a corpus with faulty data.

You can remove any word that you added to the custom model's words resource via any means. However, you cannot delete a word from the service's base vocabulary. Deleting a word from a custom model deletes only the custom pronunciation for the word; the word remains in the base vocabulary.

Removing a word from a custom model does not affect the model until you retrain it by using the `POST /v1/customizations/{customization_id}/train` method. If the model was previously trained on the word, until you retrain it, the model continues to apply the word to speech recognition even after you delete the word from the its words resource.

### Example request
{: deleteExample}

The following example deletes the word `IEEE` from the custom model with the specified ID:

```bash
curl -X DELETE -u {username}:{password}
"https://stream.watsonplatform.net/speech-to-text/api/v1/customizations/{customization_id}/words/IEEE"
```
{: pre}
